So once our application is fully written
or even we wanna start sharing it with
maybe a client or something like that,
there's a few options in which
we can deploy a Next application.
So, it needs, in its current state it needs
a dynamic backend, so it needs something
to run node to run our server and ZEIT have an offering
called Now, which is pretty good, it's,
I think it's free for 50 deploys a month
or something like that.
I have a paid account, I use it quite often
for prototyping, mini side projects,
little experiments I wanna pop on the web, bots,
a whole bunch of things.
Currently it's hosted out of the West Coast of the U.S.,
so you need to think about that with respect to latency.
But I understand they're hoping or planning
to release to Europe soon, it's been on the cards
for a while now, but it's certainly something
they want to do so they'll have better
latency across the world.
There's two ways of doing this, there is a desktop app
which I think you can instal from this page somewhere.
Gosh, somewhere.
And the command line app.
So I prefer the command line app, wow,
it really didn't say where get it.
And the desktop app is like a little icon
at the top that you drag your files into.
So, the way that the command line app works,
you just type now, hit enter and it takes
all of your files, it excludes node modules,
directories and anything that's in get ignore
and it will zip it up and upload it,
I think it will try and also work out the delta
between last upload as well.
And it will give you a immutable URL.
So each deploy you do is completely immutable,
so you can deploy five times and make small
incremental changes and look at each of those.
And it gives you a unique URL for each immutable instance.
So, this has been copied to my clipboard,
I can go ahead and just pop that into the browser
and there is our online, I shut down this server,
online version of the app here.
So, it all works as we'd expect.
We had the syntax highlighting that we mentioned before.
Noice, what else do we have, we have the about,
contact pages, it is hitting the API
to get all that content.
If we look at Dev Tools and just refresh
you can see the requests being made.
And you can see a bit of the latency
that's going on for me in the U.K. hitting U.S.
I have my cache disabled as well
so it's a little bit slower as well.
But now you can see with, sorry, not empty cache,
a hot cache everything's pretty fast and nice and slick.
So yeah, pretty good experience.
One thing I do wanna show you as well
is the prefetch which I'll show you separately
in a separate video, but that is deploying to Now.
And there's a few different options
and I'm gonna look at those as well.
But anything that can run a dynamic backend
will be able to do this as well.
Things like Heroku you'll be able to push
and as long as you run the NPM build
before it deploys.
So if you look at this there was a step
that's tucked away here because I think actually
I had already uploaded this version.
In package it needs to run NPM run build
before it actually starts the service.
So when it deploys to now it's using build
and then start, if you wanna have a different start script
for now you could do now start
and then something else API equals X.
I think same is true with Heroku,
I think you can do things like Heroku
but you'll need to check the individual service
that you wanna deploy with.
Yeah, so anything that can run load int backend
can run this Next application.
So, the next question is what about services
that can't run node on the backend?
What about services like Netlify?
We can deploy our Next application to Netlify
and I'm gonna show you that in the next video
and that's where there is no dynamic backend
and it is all entirely static content,
entirely pre-generated and deployed
and running client side and from static files.